Hubble will die one day obviously Hubble
the person is already dead
but the Hubble telescope will die one
day and we have to both be mentally and
astronomically prepared something will
wear out on Hubble Space Telescope a
screen either calibration lamp or some
of the fuel to change which direction
it's pointing in it will eventually stop
working we will no longer be able to get
images from Hubble sunrise over the
Hubble Space Telescope eliminating the
golden solar arrays those arrays to be
retracted for the final time a few hours
from now
NASA ISA McCain Space Telescope have got
a new Hubble in the pipeline
it's called James Webb Space Telescope
and this is what it looks like it
infrared not optical unlike couple so
it's not really a true follow-up because
Hubble looks in the UV and the optical
and an infrared
whereas James Webb will look out the
very far infrared James Webb will be at
the Lagrange to point so I know that
sixty symbols is done a Lagrangian video
before but basically and the grounds
point is a stable point in a two-body
system so we have the Sun and we have
the earth going around the Sun and
basically there are five point in those
orbits at which if you put something it
wouldn't move relative to the earth and
Sun so it would stay where it was so l2
is sort of beyond earth away from the
Sun and basically it will have a 365 day
year the same as the earth but it will
be orbiting further around it will be
launched an Ariane 5 which is a really
really successful ISA rocket
I'd imagine a physical dose and then
they're going to give it a little bit
and then I'll get it get it enough
energy to get to l2 but really really
slowly so what they'll do is it's kind
of like going up a hill if you will so
they'll give it enough energy to boost
it up the hill but so much so it will
slow down so don't announce down until
it reaches the very top at which point
it will stop and the thing is was a
really good plus yeah like a really
really good putt yes that just sort of
stopped threatening a German folding in
that time the antenna will fold out so
it can talk to earth and then the whole
thing moves upwards as well and it's
called a spacecraft bus they call it the
whole thing will move up and make room
for all of the equipment down below the
Sun shield will all fold out as well
this is this huge tennis court sized
five layer
intricate Sun shield this which we call
the secondary mirror so I was like comes
in here bounces off here bounces onto
the secondary and then into the center
where it's detected that will also be up
here during launch and will get folded
down to the right position the mirror
itself so this segmented array will also
fold out from being folded up inside the
rocket so what they've had to do is if
I've to design the shape of the mirror
so that it is the wrong shape at room
temperature but by the time that it gets
to like the vacuum of space it will cool
and walk to the right shape it feels
like I've made this too complicated like
they seem like they've been too
ambitious am I wrong
I get that feeling as well but I think
it's because I I'm not an engineer space
scientist engineer so I can't comprehend
what is too complicated you know let's
leave it for the mystery of the rocket
scientist to tell us you know what's too
complicated they have such belief that
this will work
so the astronomical community you know
has faith in them and says okay well
this is what I want to do with it then
there's a huge long list of things that
could go wrong it could just blow up
being trying to be launched via the
antenna couldn't even fold out the Sun
shields might not deploy properly the
mirror might not fold out properly the
secondary mirror might not fire probably
the whole thing might not move up it
might
like the cryostat to cool everything
might not come on the electronic might
be fried it might get shook up too much
than it might not work I mean it's kind
of terrifying trying to list everything
that might go wrong but also exciting
because they've had to think about how
can we stop that from happening there's
about 10 brand new technologies that go
into J diversity I haven't been tested
before everything's already built you
know everything's being tested
repeatedly at NASA Goddard which is the
Washington DC area their vibration
testing they are testing the solar
shields how they pull out someone said
to me that the test they've seen it
happen through the day but it took two
weeks from the solar shields to fully
open up the said it was like watching
paint dry okay you'd go for lunch come
back and they would look like they moved
all butts going under going so much
rigorous testing to make sure that
everything can stand up to the launch
and fold out in the you know the sort of
situation that it needs to Hubble was
optical and UV it had stuff that it
could specifically do but it's limited
it can only see so far and that's
because obviously if you imagine stars
and galaxies are always giving us
optical lights the further away they are
the more that light is redshifted and so
Hubble can't actually see the very
distant galaxies because there's nothing
really in the optical wavelengths that
it can see anymore
so we have to look in the infrared range
that we used to show you so this is the
optical image of the Eagle Nebula taken
by Hubble it is my favorite Hubble image
it is beautiful it's a very star forming
region in the motorway you can see all
the dust clouds it's absolutely
beautiful on your right yeah okay is the
infrared image from Hubble as well and
although the optical one is more sort of
visually spectacular the infrared one is
more scientifically spectacular because
you can see through all the dust and the
gas that's in this nebula and so you can
learn more from the infrared image than
you can from the optical obviously to
get enough light from an object you have
to stare at it incessantly and the idea
with James Webb is that it's got such a
big mirror 6.5 meters as opposed to you
know Hubble's 2.4 that you don't set
very long at all so there one of the
quotes I remember was that if you took
the Spitzer Space Telescope which is
infrared as well it did an entire survey
of galaxies and it took something like
550 hours of observing time that's just
actually staring at the sky that's not
including all the time it takes to
repoint the telescope if you're going to
do the exact same survey again with
James Webb it would take 30 minutes the
other thing it's going to be able to do
people hope it will be able to do is to
detect first signs of life in our
universe you know beyond our own planet
obviously I mean I'm not talking about
sort of you know contacting et or little
green men here what I'm talking about is
bio signatures you know this is the idea
that you will be able to check in the
atmosphere say water or oxygen or carbon
dioxide something that we know on earth
is a signature that life is here the way
that they've detected exoplanets in the
past is to have the exponents star here
if you're sort of the Kepler spacecraft
which is the one that's been detection
or ejects planets and I am the star then
what happens is you're observing light
from me
and you know like yep the Australia
definitely a star there and then a
planet moves across my face and
basically it will produce a tiny little
dip in my brightness in which case you'd
be like what planet there what they do
now is they'll wait for it to transit
and they'll wait for the the light from
the star to pass through a teeny tiny
bit of the atmosphere of that planet and
then they will take that light and split
it into its rainbow into its spectra
they'll take off the light from the star
and they'll be left with the absorption
spectra of the atmosphere of that planet
even if we were very confident
that we had detected signs of life in an
atmosphere and we said okay this is
definitely sort of like earth the most
earth-like we could possibly ever find
say it's a star exactly like the Sun and
it's no size and it a renal radius
planet and everything and it's got ozone
misko and co2 everything it might be
10,000 light years away and if we were
ever going to have a conversation with
these people I call them people remember
with this life if they were intelligent
life it would take us ten thousand years
to send a signal and for them to receive
it and ten dozen ears come up so it
would be a twenty thousand year wait for
the other side of the conversation in
the paper there's you know the most
earth-like planet every six months and I
that'll be the most earth-like from its
mass or from its radius or from the
distance it orbits around its star or
the fact that the star is the same as
the Sun we've never really found one
that fits all of those criteria at once
it's pretty Gary because it won't launch
till October 2018 but they already have
science proposals in if you want to do
something very specific that's your
science the call for proposals is
November this year so everybody is
already starting to think what will I do
how will I observe this how long will it
take me because you have to put all that
in the proposal before someone decides
yes or no you don't you do or don't get
time before it's even launched before
it's even gone to the launch site like
it won't even be in French Guiana before
people put in telescope proposals I bet
those people are going to be nervous one
other one jizz yes definitely if you are
sort of scientific career future
prospects of you know dependent on you
getting the James Webb Space Telescope
time you need that thing to work portion
of the spectrum we feel right now that
there's probably no real science that we
can do with the white field camera at
this time and I'll stop there the thing
about Hubble is that it was launched
into low Earth orbit and it was always
intended that it would be visited by a
you're not and so a few years later one
of five